# CS360
Project Final for CS360 

## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This application was designed to help track someone's journey as they progress through their own personal fitness goals. The application is very streamlined that offers exactly what the user wants, to log daily weight goals. When a user signs into the application using a secured system account information, they are presented with a screen that displays their last weight entry, the date and the goal weight that they have set up previously to meet. New accounts will be prompted to input this information prior to using it so that it can best track accurate information. Once a user meets their weight goals, they are met with a notification on their device that they have reached their goal and the user can then input another goal to reach.

## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
Some features that were required by users included a secured database to host both their login information as well as their weight information. There was also a security check for the user to agree to allow the application to notify them on their device when goals are met. Users can either agree or disagree with this function and if they choose not to allow further control over their device via notifications, the application will still allow the user to use the application without the notification. The main screen that the user will interact with is one that contains the latest information regarding their weight, their target goal as well as a table displaying a history of their entries as well as a delete option. Each of these screens more than meets the requirements of the user. 

## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
When coding this application, I went with a waterfall design methodology where I focused more on the design aspects and ensuring that all requirements are met prior to writing the code. From there each screen was done in order of how the user would interact with it, meaning I focused on the login information screen first, followed by the new login information, the main homepage or table page as well as a prompt screen that said congrats on reaching the goal. Within each of these screens, I ensured that after making any changes such as adding a button or changing a function, I tested it out and ensured that it interacted as it should with the other elements within the app. 

## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Prior to moving on after each button or change was input, I would save and test this to ensure that the features and buttons or anything major that I was working on that interacted with the user or the databases was tested prior to moving on to the next element. The testing phase of any application or program is important as it removes any obstacles and gives you, the developer, a chance to go through the code and make any changes that are necessary. Having a focus group or a test group of people who have never worked on the design or implementation of the application is necessary as well so you can get first hand experience and feedback as to what works and realize any important changes that should be done prior to release. Also this is great for when you want to provide further updates to the application via newer release versions. 

## Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The coding portion is something that I had to innovate with as I was not familiar with app development as this is my first one, and learning how the code works in Android Studio was a challenge at first. I understand Java, but again I have only used this in database development for programs exclusively used on a computer with no want or desire or need to have it on a mobile application as I work with large Excel databases. 

## In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
The initial design portion of this process I would say I was most successful at as I have worked in a lot of technical programming type of positions and most of the time we are writing documents, design mock ups, and presentations to help inform our users about what is happening as well as working with the development team to bring to them the problems users are having. That portion is definitely something that I am strongly suited for and display that here. 
